Hey everyone.
Today we're jumping right into the world of voice control,
and it all boils down to one super simple idea.
What you see on a screen, you should be able
to say to control it.
I mean, that sounds totally obvious, doesn't it?
But you'd be surprised how often this
very simple rule gets broken.
So today we're gonna find out why. So let's set the scene.
A user is looking at a website.
They see a button, it says, search right on it.
So they give the command, click search.
And nothing, just silence.
This isn't just some random bug, you know,
it's a fundamental design flaw.
And we're about to play detective
and find out exactly what's going on here. Okay? So
First things first. Who
are we even talking about?
It's really important to get this right.
Voice control is not for people who can't see the screen.
That's a totally different
technology called a screen reader.
Nope. This is for users
who can see the screen perfectly well,
but maybe they have a motor disability,
A Repetitive strain injury,
or even just a temporary thing, like a broken arm
for them using a mouse or keyboard isn't reliable.
So voice, that's their primary way in.
Alright, time for our investigation to begin.
And the whole mystery really comes down to this.
There's a huge disconnect between the screen that we see
with our eyes and the screen
that the technology actually reads from under the hood.
And boom, here is our first big clue on the left.
That's what we all see, right?
A button that clearly says search, but here's the kicker.
Voice control doesn't look at the pixels on the screen.
Instead it reads this sort of hidden map
of the interface called the accessibility tree.
And if you look at that map on the right,
the button's real name isn't search, it's find products.
So when our user says click search, the system is like,
sorry, I have no idea what you're talking about.
And the command fails. So what's a user supposed to do then?
Well, they've got a few options,
but honestly, they're not great.
The best way, the ideal path is name based targeting.
You just say what you see, click submit simple.
But when that fails, they have
to use these clunky workarounds.
The next best thing is to say, show numbers.
And the whole screen gets covered with little numbers.
Then they have to scan for the right one
and say, click seven.
It's slow. And the last resort is a grid overlay,
which is even more tedious.
So you can see why our goal as designers is to make
that first fast path work every single time.
But hey, here's the good news. These failures aren't random.
They're caused by a set of really common, predictable,
and totally preventable design mistakes.
So let's meet the usual suspects,
and here they are, our six design saboteurs.
We've got things like missing names, you know,
for those little icon only buttons with no text
or duplicate names
where there are 10 different buttons on the page
and they're all called learn more.
Super helpful, right? And of course,
the one we just caught in the act, the label
and name mismatch where what a button says it's called
and what it's actually called in the code are two
totally different things.
And this brings us right back
to our original mystery, doesn't it?
Because out of all these problems,
the label in name mis math is
by far the most frustrating for a user.
And you can see why, right?
They can see exactly what they wanna do.
The interface looks perfectly clear,
but when they speak the obvious command, it's like talking
to a brick wall.
Absolutely maddening.
Okay, enough doom and gloom about the problems.
Let's talk about the solution
because it's actually really elegant, it's super simple,
and it's a rule that every single
designer should know by heart.
And hey, this isn't just a good idea.
It's an official web accessibility standard.
It's called label and name.
And it was created specifically to solve this exact problem.
It's considered a baseline level a requirement,
which means it's one of the most fundamental
things you need to get right?
So let's just translate
that technical jargon into plain English.
It's this, If a button or a link or any
Control has visible text on it, then the
Accessible name, the one in that
Hidden map we talked about must include that
Exact same text. That's it.
It's really that simple.
And this table just makes it crystal clear.
If the button says submit,
and its name is submit order, that passes the name,
contains the visible text.
Perfect. Same for close and close dialogue.
But then look at our original problem.
The visible text is search,
but the accessible name is find products.
That's a fail. The word search is nowhere to be found.
Okay, so we get the rule,
but how do we actually put this into practice?
Let's get into a clear, actionable playbook
that every designer can use
to get this right every single time.
Here it is your five step workflow. Step one is easy.
Your visible label is your baseline accessible name.
Step two, if you really need to add more context,
just make sure the full name starts with a visible text.
Step three, write this stuff down,
annotate it in your design specs.
Step four, talk about it during your design reviews.
And step five, and this is the big one, test it yourself.
Turn on voice control
and see if you can truly say what you see.
You know, when you boil it all down, it comes back
to this one powerful
Idea. The
Words you choose as a designer are not just
static text on a screen.
They become the actual commands your
users speak to get around.
You are Directly in control of that experience,
and that's a huge responsibility,
but it's also a massive opportunity
to make things better. So I'll leave
You with this question.
You are the one writing the labels for every button,
every link, every single field.
So what are you going to empower your users to say?
Are they gonna say click search and have it just work?
Or will they be forced to say, show numbers,
the choice is yours.